- [Instructor] One of the tangential products that I have
done quite a bit of work with exists in the LDAP realm.
And I wanted to give a brief discussion of it.
The use cases in this area are very enterprise-focused
from my experiences, but there are always different cases
so it's worth learning a bit about them.
So to a casual person in technology, when you hear LDAP,
you may only consider authentication.
While that is an important use case, it isn't the only one.
In fact, there are several valid use cases
that you may encounter where LDAP can be a viable solution.
The project for working with LDAP outside
of the security sense is spring-ldap-core,
which we brought into our application.
And I have professionally used this project a few times
for some really big problems that needed to be solved.
The uses, in fact, were so critical to HR
that I feel it's worth this entire video on the topic
so that you know it exists.
Many of these use cases are not even security focused.
They are simply, in my experience,
employee-related tasks or asset-related tasks.
One of the beautiful aspects of the way
that the Spring team works is the cohesion
of the framework itself
and LDAP operations are no exception.
In Spring Security, we can query LDAP
using the template pattern for LDAP
just like we would for JDBC or Rest or Rabbit or AMQP
or any of the other templates
for the various technologies that exist.
The LDAP template has several key use cases
that you need to know.
The first and most common for many people is search.
There is also support for building distinguished names
in a very simple LDAP name builder,
mostly associated with the JDBC template.
And often you use one to serve the other,
meaning you pull from JDBC to load into LDAP
or or vice versa.
Back to the template support, you also get binding support
which is the creation of nodes and associated with that
you get updates and deletes.
Finally, there is full support for the repository patterns
within LDAP itself.
So we haven't seen any code, and I think that's fine
since it's well documented, but I do want to share
a few real-life use cases that I have worked
or I have consulted on.
One really powerful use is an employee onboarding system
where the user is added to the directory dynamically
based on conditions being met
like signatures being filed and things like that.
Another valid use case is the various HR management systems
especially for those targeting communication.
By leveraging groups that may not be visible
to the entire company,
communication channels or email lists can be generated
while obscuring those from the view
of those not in the group.
It can also be a very useful tool when building HR
or physical security directory tooling or search programs.
I have seen it used for learning systems
for things like weather
and other warnings within an enterprise.
Finally, I think it's important to admit
that there are some other pieces of data
that you can store in LDAP other than users.
And those use cases can get huge wins
when leveraging spring-ldap-core
for managing things like assets.